---
layout: news_item
title: "New Release: phpSmug 2.2"
date: "2010-07-21 15:18:16 +0100"
author: lildude
categories: release
---

It's been a while since I last released an update to phpSmug, but rest assured I've not forgotten phpSmug and have actually been working on some of the behind-the-scenes stuff.  Most of the work I've been doing has been on building a test suite for my own purposes so I can thoroughly test phpSmug with ease.

This is list of the changes you as a developer/user may notice (taken from the README.txt):

* https is forced for all calls that use OAuth with the PLAINTEXT signature method. WARNING: Uploads are however rejected by the API if you use PLAINTEXT (which is NOT the default).
* Failed upload responses and `smugmug.auth.*` method responses are no longer cached.
* Upload filenames are now encoded to ensure spaces and non-ascii characters are correctly handled.
* `images_upload()` now honours any earlier `setProxy()` calls so uploads can occur through that proxy.
* `clearCache()` now takes a boolean argument to state whether you want the cache location to be removed when the cache is cleared. Default is FALSE, ie the cache location will NOT be removed
* Added methods to handle calling of the various login.* methods offered by the API when using these instead of the single login() method offered by phpSmug. ([Issue #6](https://github.com/lildude/phpSmug/issues/6))
* For my own benefit, I've now implemented a full PHPUnit test suite that checks all functionality of phpSmug.

phpSmug 2.2 is now available on the [download](http://phpsmug.com/download) page.

Given the relative silence from users, I'd say not many people have encountered these or they're easily found a workaround.

If you spot any issues, let me know.  Oh and don't forget to drop me a line if you have a product that uses phpSmug that could do with a bit of free advertising.
